# evapotranspiration_R
This repository contains the R functions necessary for calculating evapotranspiration in R as in McNellis & Smith

The script calc_ET.R contains code for the evapotranspiration function. The function will calculate net radiation, ground heat flux, bulk stomatal resistance of the canopy, bulk boundary layer resistance of canopy, aerodynamic resistance between the substrate and canopy, aerodynamic resistance between canopy and boundary layer, canopy and surface coefficients, canopy and surface evapotranspiration, and canopy plus surface evapotranspiration. The inputs required are maximum, minimum, and average air temperature, air pressure, wet bulb temperature, relative humidity, vapor pressure deficit, day of year, latitude, elevation, sunshine duration in a day, wind speed, albedo, leaf area index, canopy height, stomatal conductance, soil moisture, saturation soil moisture, soil surface roughness, psychrometer constant, fraction of extraterrestrial radiation reaching the earth on a clear day, Schmidt and Prandtl numbers, reference height for  temperature and wind speed, eddy diffusivity decay constant in a crop with complete canopy cover, and specific heat of air. Standard values for some inputs are provided as defaults (psychrometer constant, fraction of extraterrestrial radiation reaching the earth on a clear day, Schmidt and Prandtl numbers, saturation soil moisture, soil surface roughness, eddy diffusivity decay constant in a crop with complete canopy cover, and specific heat of air).

An additional function is provided to calculate evapotranspiration for soil with no canopy cover. The function will calculate net radiation, ground heat flux, soil surface resistance, aerodynamic resistance, and evapotranspiration. The inputs required are maximum, minimum, and average air temperature, air pressure, wet bulb temperature, relative humidity, vapor pressure deficit, day of year, latitude, elevation, sunshine duration in a day, wind speed, albedo, soil moisture, saturation soil moisture, soil surface roughness, psychrometer constant, fraction of extraterrestrial radiation reaching the earth on a clear day, Schmidt and Prandtl numbers, reference height for temperature and wind speed, eddy diffusivity decay constant in a crop with complete canopy cover, and specific heat of air. Standard values for some inputs are provided as defaults (psychrometer constant, fraction of extraterrestrial radiation reaching the earth on a clear day, Schmidt and Prandtl numbers, saturation soil moisture, soil surface roughness, eddy diffusivity decay constant in a crop with complete canopy cover, and specific heat of air).

The script test_calc_ET.R will test the functions. It is suggested that users run this script first to ensure the functions will run properly.

Any questions or issues can be submitted via GitHub or directed to Risa McNellis (risa.mcnellis@gmail.com).
